---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/projects/dallas-confluent-practice/notes/kafka-streams-202403301640/","tags":["📖","♣️/kafka"],"created":"2024-08-29T16:38:59.798-05:00","updated":"2024-11-08T09:43:56.863-06:00"}
---

# Kafka Streams

Solves transformations within [[areas/Apache Kafka\|Apache Kafka]]

Stateless means processing of each message depends only on the message, so converting from JSON to Avro or filtering a stream are both stateless operations

Although any Kafka Streams application is stateless as the state is stored in Kafka, it can take a while and lots of resources to recover the state from Kafka. In order to speed up recovery, it is advised to store the Kafka Streams state on a persistent volume, so that only the missing part of the state needs to be recovered.

## References

[Stateful transformations](https://kafka.apache.org/20/documentation/streams/developer-guide/dsl-api.html#stateful-transformations)


## Flashcards


Which of the following event processing application is stateless? (select two)
- Read events from a stream and modifies them from JSON to Avro
- Publish the top 10 stocks each day
- Find the minimum and maximum stock prices for each day of trading
- Read log messages from a stream and writes ERROR events into a high-priority stream and the rest of the events into a low-priority stream
?
- Read log messages from a stream and writes ERROR events into a high-priority stream and the rest of the events into a low-priority stream
- Read events from a stream and modifies them from JSON to Avro
Stateless means processing of each message depends only on the message, so converting from JSON to Avro or filtering a stream are both stateless operations
<!--SR:!2024-07-31,34,290-->

The exactly once guarantee in the Kafka Streams is for which flow of data?:: Kafka => Kafka
<!--SR:!2024-09-03,56,310-->

You are running a Kafka Streams application in a Docker container managed by Kubernetes, and upon application restart, it takes a long time for the docker container to replicate the state and get back to processing the data. How can you improve dramatically the application restart?:: Mount a persistent volume for your RocksDB
<!--SR:!2024-08-29,51,310-->

Which of the following Kafka Streams operators are stateful? (select all that apply)
- joining
- reduce
- aggregate
- peek
- count
- flatmap
?
- joining
- reduce
- aggregate
- count
<!--SR:!2024-09-10,63,310-->

You want to perform table lookups against a KTable everytime a new record is received from the KStream. What is the output of KStream-KTable join?:: Kstream,Here KStream is being processed to create another KStream.
<!--SR:!2024-10-14,97,290-->

Which of the following technologies can be used to perform event stream processing? (Pick two)
- Confluent Schema Registry
- Apache Kafka Streams
- Confluent KSQL
- Confluent Replicator
?
- Apache Kafka Streams
- Confluent KSQL
<!--SR:!2024-08-19,41,293-->

We have a store selling shoes. What dataset is a great candidate to be modeled as a KTable in Kafka Streams?
- Inventory contents right now
- Items returned
- The transaction stream
- Money made until now
?
- Inventory contents right now
- Money made until now
Aggregations of stream are stored in table, whereas Streams must be modeled as a KStream to avoid data explosion
<!--SR:!2024-08-20,54,315-->

An ecommerce website maintains two topics - a high volume "purchase" topic with 5 partitions and low volume "customer" topic with 3 partitions. You would like to do a stream-table join of these topics. How should you proceed?:: Model customer as a GlobalKTable. In case of KStream-KStream join, both need to be co-partitioned. This restriction is not applicable in case of join with GlobalKTable, which is the most efficient here.
<!--SR:!2024-08-20,42,295-->

In Kafka Streams, by what value are internal topics prefixed by?:: application.id In Kafka Streams, the application.id is also the underlying group.id for your consumers, and the prefix for all internal topics (repartition and state)
<!--SR:!2024-07-16,7,275-->

Select the Kafka Streams joins that are always windowed joins.:: KStream-KStream join
<!--SR:!2024-07-29,16,275-->

To transform data from a Kafka topic to another one, I should use:: Kafka Streams. Kafka Streams is a library for building streaming applications, specifically applications that transform input Kafka topics into output Kafka topics
<!--SR:!2024-09-07,60,315-->

```java
StreamsBuilder builder = new StreamsBuilder();
        KStream<String, String> textLines = builder.stream("word-count-input");
        KTable<String, Long> wordCounts = textLines
                .mapValues(textLine -> textLine.toLowerCase())
                .flatMapValues(textLine -> Arrays.asList(textLine.split("\W+")))
                .selectKey((key, word) -> word)
                .groupByKey()
                .count(Materialized.as("Counts"));
        wordCounts.toStream().to("word-count-output", Produced.with(Serdes.String(), Serdes.Long()));
        builder.build();
```
What is an adequate topic configuration for the topic word-count-output?
?
cleanup.policy=compact Result is aggregated into a table with key as the unique word and value its frequency. We have to enable log compaction for this topic to align the topic's cleanup policy with KTable semantics.
<!--SR:!2024-09-03,56,315-->

Your streams application is reading from an input topic that has 5 partitions. You run 5 instances of your application, each with num.streams.threads set to 5. How many stream tasks will be created and how many will be active?:: One partition is assigned a thread, so only 5 will be active, and 25 threads (i.e. tasks) will be created
<!--SR:!2024-09-05,55,312-->

An ecommerce wesbite sells some custom made goods. What's the natural way of modeling this data in Kafka streams?:: Purchase as stream, Product as table, Customer as table. Mostly-static data is modeled as a table whereas business transactions should be modeled as a stream.
<!--SR:!2024-09-24,71,324-->

Which of these joins does not require input topics to be sharing the same number of partitions?
- KStream-GlobalKTable
- KStream-KTable join
- KStream-KStream join
- KTable-KTable join
?
KStream-GlobalKTable have their datasets replicated on each Kafka Streams instance and therefore no repartitioning is required
<!--SR:!2024-09-09,59,332-->

We want the average of all events in every five-minute window updated every minute. What kind of Kafka Streams window will be required on the stream?:: Hopping window A hopping window is defined by two properties: the window's size and its advance interval (aka "hop"), e.g., a hopping window with a size 5 minutes and an advance interval of 1 minute.
<!--SR:!2024-07-17,2,172-->

Which of the following Kafka Streams operators are stateless? (select all that apply)
- groupBy
- map
- filter
- flatmap
- branch
- aggregate
?
- groupBy
- map
- filter
- flatmap
- branch
<!--SR:!2024-07-18,6,284-->