---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/projects/dallas-confluent-practice/topics-202405282249/","tags":["📖","♣️/kafka"],"created":"2024-03-19T13:32:56.536-05:00","updated":"2024-05-29T08:41:58.358-05:00"}
---

# Topics

A particular stream of data. Like a table in a database without all the constraints. You can have as many topics as you want. A topic is identified by its name.

Any kind of message format, JSON, avro, etc.

The sequence of messages is called a Data Stream. You cannot query topics directly through kafka, you will send data using Producers and read data through Consumers.

Topics Are [[projects/Domain-driven Design/Immutable - 202302170858\|Immutable]].  
Data in a topic is kept only for a limited time (default is one week but is configurable.)

Once a topic is created, the [[projects/Dallas Confluent Practice/Message Serializer - 202303012042\|Message Serializer]] /[[Consumer Deserializer - 202303012049 \|Consumer Deserializer]] type must not change during a topic lifecycle (create a new topic instead).

## References


## Flashcards

Topics::: A particular stream of data.  
Topics can contain these message types::: JSON, AVRO, Binary, anything  
To query a topic::: You can't do this directly, you send data using [[projects/Dallas Confluent Practice/Producer - 202303012023\|Producers]] and read data through [[projects/Dallas Confluent Practice/Consumer - 202303012045\|Consumers]]  
A sequence of messages::: [[Data stream\|Data stream]]  
Topics are ==[[projects/Domain-driven Design/Immutable - 202302170858\|Immutable]]== and cannot change  
The default retention period for a topic is:: One week  
A topic's serialization type::: Must not change during a topic lifecycle